# Object-detection-Using-Convolutional-Neural-Network-in-ROS
Object detection is done in two main parts. The first part is to prepare the dataset and build Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model. For better training, a large number of data is required. In this project, we have purposefully chosen a three common objects i.e. Apple, Scientific Calculator and a Computer Mouse since these are objects more frequently observed on the desk. We used a Kinect Xbox One camera for capturing the images. A huge number of pictures of these objects were taken from different angles and distances from the Kinect camera. After capturing the raw images they were modified and 1800 images of each class were created for training of CNN model.
Once the model was trained, second part is of testing the model we used ROS bag files. It was performed in two steps, the first step is the image segmentation part. Image segmentation is a fundamental step to extract data from the image. In our project, we have focused on an image segmentation technique called contour. Contours are the continuous curve along the boundary of the object in an image. We made a square contour around the object using a series of OpenCV functions such as grayscale conversion, thresholding, noise removal, watershed algorithm. Details are discussed under program implementation.
The second step is Image classification using a CNN. The Main aim of CNN is to accept the input image and define its class. Here in our project, the class of object is Apple, Scientific Calculator and Computer Mouse. CNN model has a three-layer architecture that contains an input layer, hidden layers, and output layer. The input layer takes the image, output layer gives the trained output and the hidden layer is a interconnect series of convolution and max-pooling layers which is responsible for the actual training of data. In our project, the output of image segmentation is given as input to CNN for identifying the class of objects. 
